# copious-chains

 Interfaces for blockchain and payment systems



Interesting. I was just looking around for more info on Merkle clocks for part of my app. (My app is underfunded at the moment - https://github.com/sponsors/copious-world). But, there are few things that I am thinking about. 

1. Surprisingly, I was trying to create a CMS based on the a foundation of a super large dictionary. And, I had some 800K entries. So, I created a web interface that sends up short lists if you click on the first to alphabet letters of the word. From there, you could drag and drop words onto a graph to start building an ontology tree. These was supposed to be for product description. But... the recession hit and it's been sitting there since. Find salvaged code here: https://github.com/copious-world/Copious-CMS.
2. I am building a repository bridge for use in my system. I started with IPFS and CIDs. But, I figured that CIDs are inadequate. That is because, their format is off a little and it doesn't capture nearness or similarity of data. So, I want both a collision proof ID and an expression of nearness obtained from the hash of normalized data. I am calling that a UCWID.  I can use a UCWID to create an Intergalactic ID for user and perhaps contracts or something, but in the latter case mostly a reference to IDs in a some consensus system in use. By normalization, I mean something like an interlingua  that might occur in multi-way translation. Or, it might be a semantic capture data description as to what something is about. (e.g. an image). The repository bridge takes its queue as to which sort of system to store data from meta-descriptions which may identify the repo, .e.g. one is IPFS and this summer I did some work to add Bittorent v1, with V2 possible.
3. You show a partial ordering of events, which is likely to occur. So, for a system that can safely no nothing about why things are ordered you can use something random like a CID to order them. But, there might be loss of causality in observation. The best resolution would be semantic, which is likely beyond the scope of your storage theory. But, semantics does not have to be too deep. For instance, IOTA manages partial ordering by using confidence thresholds, etc.  AlephZero also builds a DAG and uses voting with multiple parents for a block (called a unit) within a PoS context. I am also looking into Ouroboros and Babe (Parity) as well as Solana. (Time was an issue for Hyper-cubes with respect to battlefield messaging in the early 1980s. I was starting to think about that before the shuttle blew up and our project got canceled at JPL. There was a guy who thought up a thing called time-warp for a global simulation time which allowed simulations to rollback like a transaction even as far as the start of a simulation in order to deal with semantic inconsistency from simulation. Not really fit for the real world. I was thinking of time as the injection of events into semantic context which tracks the time arrow. Semantic resolution might mean localized revisions of planned reasoning or imagining, but you couldn't start over.)
4. Have you given thoughts to the relationship between your the Merkle-DAG and these other ways of keeping time? And, what sort of rate would be optimal in resolving time? Those who make AlephZero can make a randomness beacon out of threshold ECDSA. Could time be tracked by such a mechanism
5. Could a Merkle-clock be used for the purpose of verifiable random functions belonging to time lords in Chia? 
6. I am trying to record instant contractual ownership from the onset of data generation. It's been a few years since I wrote the code for it, and when I looked at it I was forced to recall that I had taken time from a server and signed it and stamped new data with it to send back to the server. The client in this case is a web recorder, but now I have something like a DID login with workers only accessible under certain domains - to keep private data local. So, now this recorder works in the context of the worker. The worker has the conversation about time.


